content/kubedge/2018-06-19-a.md, before:

---
type: itemized
author: Jerome Brette
format: Kubedge
title:  "Add Raspberry PI node to Kubernetes Cluster in 10 min"
date:   2018-06-19
categories: [wiki]
description: ""
thumbnail: "img/placeholder.jpg"
disable_comments: true
authorbox: true
toc: true
mathjax: true
tags: [kubedge, kubernetes, rpi]
published: true
---

# Goal

During some of the manipulation of the partition table of 
my SD card, I ended up screwing up both my SD card and my backup Win32DiskImage backup.
Moreover if your SD card is 32G, it takes around 30 minute to restore from backup.
Hence the idea to come up with a way to build more resiliency in the cluster.
Recreating a node from scratch should not take more than 10 mn. The propose procedure
is still rather long because I did not push enough yet what the HypriotOS team, aka
build a default SD image where cloud-init does 100% of the initialization work.

## Base OS
 
Flash HypriotOS to SD and reboot Pi.

~~~
Flash the SD Card with HypriotOS
Connect Pi through LAN (temporary).
Look for black-perl machine in DHCP
~~~

## Connect to PI through LAN

~~~
ssh 192.168.1.xxx -l rpiuser

ls -lt
docker ps
~~~

## Enable LAN or WLAN.

Check the IP address. Depending on PI3B or PI3B+, the WLAN network may be different.
~~~
ip a
iwconfig
sudo ip link set wlan0 up
sudo iwlist scan | grep ES
sudo iwlist scan | grep ED
wpa_passphrase <sommessid>
sudo vi sudo vi /etc/network/interfaces.d/wlan0
sudo ifup wlan0
~~~

## Freeze your configuration

Cloud init is perfect for the first boot. Once the node
is up, it can be challenging not to preserve the fine tuning done
to the OS.

~~~
sudo apt-get remove --purge cloud-init
sudo apt-get autoremove
~~~

## Update your Pi name

as root
~~~~
sudo -i

vi /etc/hosts
vi /etc/hostname
~~~~

I useally don't touch the file. Domain most likely
coming from your Internet router. I actually updated the settings
on the router to have consistent naming on my PI networks. 
~~~~
vi /etc/resolv.conf
~~~~

## Install kubeadm

Firt access the kubemaster node and regenerate a token:
~~~
kubeadm token create
~~~

Back on the new node, as root
~~~
curl -s https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg | apt-key add -
echo "deb http://apt.kubernetes.io/ kubernetes-xenial main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
apt-get update
apt-get install -y kubeadm
kubeadm join 192.168.1.95:6443 --token yyyyyy.xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx --discovery-token-ca-cert-hash sha256:xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
~~~

## Conclusion

- Will have to come back later and use cloud-init, create a clean & small SD image for Win32DiskImage
- Will have to create more advanced partition on the SD card.

Commit message:

redirect old posts to kubedge

content/kubedge/2018-06-19-a.md, after:

---
type: itemized
author: Jerome Brette
format: Deprecated
title:  "Add Raspberry PI node to Kubernetes Cluster in 10 min"
date:   2018-06-19
categories: [wiki]
description:  "Add Raspberry PI node to Kubernetes Cluster in 10 min"
thumbnail: "img/placeholder.jpg"
disable_comments: true
authorbox: true
toc: true
mathjax: true
tags: [kubedge, kubernetes, rpi]
published: true
featured: ""
featuredpath: ""
featuredalt: ""
linktitle: "Moved to KUBEDGE"
link: "https://kubedge.cloud/pi_cluster/"
---

# Goal

During some of the manipulation of the partition table of 
my SD card, I ended up screwing up both my SD card and my backup Win32DiskImage backup.
Moreover if your SD card is 32G, it takes around 30 minute to restore from backup.
Hence the idea to come up with a way to build more resiliency in the cluster.
Recreating a node from scratch should not take more than 10 mn. The propose procedure
is still rather long because I did not push enough yet what the HypriotOS team, aka
build a default SD image where cloud-init does 100% of the initialization work.

## Base OS
 
Flash HypriotOS to SD and reboot Pi.

~~~
Flash the SD Card with HypriotOS
Connect Pi through LAN (temporary).
Look for black-perl machine in DHCP
~~~

## Connect to PI through LAN

~~~
ssh 192.168.1.xxx -l rpiuser

ls -lt
docker ps
~~~

## Enable LAN or WLAN.

Check the IP address. Depending on PI3B or PI3B+, the WLAN network may be different.
~~~
ip a
iwconfig
sudo ip link set wlan0 up
sudo iwlist scan | grep ES
sudo iwlist scan | grep ED
wpa_passphrase <sommessid>
sudo vi sudo vi /etc/network/interfaces.d/wlan0
sudo ifup wlan0
~~~

## Freeze your configuration

Cloud init is perfect for the first boot. Once the node
is up, it can be challenging not to preserve the fine tuning done
to the OS.

~~~
sudo apt-get remove --purge cloud-init
sudo apt-get autoremove
~~~

## Update your Pi name

as root
~~~~
sudo -i

vi /etc/hosts
vi /etc/hostname
~~~~

I useally don't touch the file. Domain most likely
coming from your Internet router. I actually updated the settings
on the router to have consistent naming on my PI networks. 
~~~~
vi /etc/resolv.conf
~~~~

## Install kubeadm

Firt access the kubemaster node and regenerate a token:
~~~
kubeadm token create
~~~

Back on the new node, as root
~~~
curl -s https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg | apt-key add -
echo "deb http://apt.kubernetes.io/ kubernetes-xenial main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
apt-get update
apt-get install -y kubeadm
kubeadm join 192.168.1.95:6443 --token yyyyyy.xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx --discovery-token-ca-cert-hash sha256:xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
~~~

## Conclusion

- Will have to come back later and use cloud-init, create a clean & small SD image for Win32DiskImage
- Will have to create more advanced partition on the SD card.
